as we were treating AML with 7 and 3
1977 we are still doing the same in 2018
what is the best way forward to change
this by 2028
well I think one idea that's become
quite clear particularly in AML is that
we need to find the biology more deeply
we don't understand how fundamentally
don't understand what drives these cells
you know that's the surprising story
with at least myeloid leukemias was that
when the cancer genomes were being
sequenced there was the simple idea that
we would sequence all these cancer
genomes and all the genes that would
fall out would be genes that controlled
cell growth so they would be very would
be a quite a simple kind of answer it
turns out as you know very well in AML
the most commonly mutated genes we still
don't understand why they how they
contribute to the malignancy
you know genes like tattoo and dnmt3a
these are genes that have to do with the
methylation of DNA demethylation of DNA
how does that make a cell become
completely unable to stop dividing so
one aspect of that is to concentrate on
the fundamental biology of the disease
but as you know very well and this is
what I've spent most of my life thinking
about that is just the half the picture
that is the yin in the yin and the yang
the yang is the microenvironment why
does AML live in the bone marrow what is
what about this disease and how do we
alter that micro environment using
immune system immune system using
cellular components of the body using
normal parts of human physiology how do
we alter that environment to now attack
it as the disease so in if you were to
ask me in 2019 you know what will really
be a landmark study in ml I would say
somehow combining the CN and yang
somehow combining our capacity to
understand the biology and target the
disease using targeted therapy some kind
of medicine medicine that really shuts
off this abnormal growth like a you know
hopefully like in without side effects
but at the same time concentrate
on the microenvironment find out why
this and that certain places Emily
doesn't grow in your nose it doesn't
grow you know interestingly doesn't tend
to grow typically even in the brain you
know but on the other hand other
leukemias migrate so quickly there to
the brain so they're very very seed and
important seed in soil questions and I
think we free tackle both the seed and
the soil for AML in 2019 that's the kind
of study that I look forward to
combining a powerful immunological arm
with a with a medicine well I think that
I think part of what we're doing wrong
is the cancer therapy I think
appropriately is built like a pyramid
the bottom of the pyramid is cancer
prevention the intermediate layer of the
pyramid is the early detection of cancer
and the top of the pyramid is the
treatment of cancer now obviously as you
know a lot of attention focuses on the
top of the pyramid because that's when
patients come to see you they want to be
treated for a disease that they have
meanwhile cancer prevention is a much
much more difficult in some ways puzzle
to crack because because you know you're
trying to prevent a disease that doesn't
exist you're trying to prevent it from
existing in the first place but that is
the appropriate way that the pyramid
should be set up fundamentally now for
the longest time we thought that
exploring the treatment paradigms which
somehow flow backwards and allow us to
detect early and also allow us to
prevent cancer and that's happened to
some extent but it hasn't happened to
the extent that we really really want it
to happen that's part of the reason that
we I think what we've what we're doing
wrong is we were trying to use
the treatment paradigm to try to
understand early detection and to try to
understand cancer prevention but as we
move forward I think they we really need
to integrate these three pieces together
again going back to what the thing that
I'm obsessed with the microenvironment
the body states the immunological state
of the body that could be very important
in cancer prevention you see we could
understand how cancer is only growing
certain individuals but not and under
other individuals and we could change
the physiology hopefully to prevent
cancer in a way that's much more
tractable on the other hand what's
what's what's been surprising and
somewhat disappointing is that the
concentration on treatment particularly
the kind of monomaniacal concentration
on cancer genomics has really not told
us very much about how to prevent cancer
in the most of the most of the people it
has not informed in the way we had hoped
how to prevent cancer so we need to
rebuild this pyramid as it were from
scratch understand the contributors of
the pyramid understand that we need
something some deeper understanding of a
host physiology the environment of the
host the micro environment of the host
the behavior of the host that makes them
susceptible or not susceptible cancer
I'm not I'm not dinging the cancer GOG
no I'm not dinging cancer genomics I'm
just saying again that there's a yin and
yang quality about it we focused mana
maniacally on one aspect of the puzzle
but we haven't been able to integrate
down to the bottom where the real sort
of gain would lie
but since most cancers increase with age
even having good health we may not
matter because the host is decrepit well
so having you're preaching to me I this
has been sort of the center of what I've
thought about for a long time I think
again if the host is decrepit then our
capacity to understand how to treat
cancer has to change because we have to
take into consideration the host this is
a classical seed and soil problem this
is a classical problem in which you if
you focus monomaniacal on the seed and
forget the soil you will not understand
the real dynamics of what is happening
what's interesting is in fact if you
look at some tumors not all tumors we
look at tumors the mutations that are
found in children are very similar to
the mutations found in adults that's not
true for all tumors there's some unique
ones that are in children and yet the
same tumors with the same sort of
mutational spectrum do they do
relatively better in children and
relatively worse in adults yet again
suggesting that there are two aspects to
this to this puzzle I think that the
solution out of this is to again give
deep consideration to what the host is
what is the biology of the host look
like what are the factors in the host
that contribute towards or against the
development of cancers why do some host
and it's an interesting question why do
some host if you look that you can find
cancers in their body but they haven't
become what we would call you know
invasive or malignant or or or the kinds
of cancers that will kill you some
people seem to have the capacity to keep
cancers at bay we know this from a whole
history of autopsy studies what is it
about them what is it about those people
so yet again I mean you know it's the
same questions keep coming up in 2019
and I think they're coming up for a
reason they're coming up for a reason
because we have solved to some extent
one part of the puzzle of cancer
genetics puzzle not fully solve to some
extent the cancer genetics puzzle but we
haven't solved the host puzzle we
haven't solved the microenvironment
puzzle and we haven't solved how to take
these two factors together and develop
new lines of therapy going away from
this 7+3 as we move into the future
that's the problem I think
next question your great knowledge and
experience in this field if you were
given limitless resources how would you
plan to well I would go back to this
pyramid I would go back to the this this
idea that we need to relearn how to
think about this scheme in terms of
prevention detection and and treatment
and we need to integrate these we need
to figure out how that what we've learnt
about cancer treatment thus far can be
translated into early detection and can
be translated into into prevention and
take very seriously the problems that
lie in the bottom two layers so just to
talk about early detection we are now at
a phase where we can have powerful ways
to look at a host blood to see whether
genes that are associated with cancer
are have spilled out into the blood can
we then find those cancers these are
powerful technologies what we don't know
is whether we can find the cancers that
are likely to kill you or we'll just
find lots and lots of cancers and just
you know over diagnosed people and end
up you know doing invasive things on
people that actually don't deserve any
of that so that's a it's a big puzzle in
the early detection field the big puzzle
in the prevention field is that although
we've looked a lot we haven't been able
to find a whole host of preventable
chemical carcinogens a removable
chemical carcinogen since the 1980s or
1990s I mean such as cigarette smoke
which is clearly a carcinogen so you
know we found what we have found rather
is either many many carcinogens with
small effects you know there many
examples of this or we are now beginning
to find physiological States body states
host states that are more inclined or
less inclined to develop cancer even
hosts genetic states that are more
inclined or less inclined to develop
cancer so I think in prevention we have
we were starting to move away from this
hunt for it you know this mysterious
carcinogen we hope to or series of
carcinogens that we hope to find and
remove from the environment towards
trying to understand more deeply about
what causes
so how much of it is random error how
much of it is intrinsically built into
cellular division errors of cell
division and I think this is going to be
an area that we that you know everyone
will focus on host metabolism host
genomics that as I said before the
environment the micro environment immune
system the behavior of the host the
exposures that happen how to take all of
this together and build a more robust
platform for cancer prevention I think
it's I think it's a it's a complex
blessing and I do understand that
complexity to know a little bit about
the history of cancer I mean it is
certainly true that we shouldn't have
backed away as a community from offering
toxic therapies to patients who actually
won't are unlikely to benefit from those
toxic therapies the the plea on the
other hand is to remember that this that
the road to progress in many cancers was
followed by extraordinarily toxic trials
it's not only difficult trials and each
one of them taught us something so my
general plea is that if we're going to
offer these kinds of therapies that we
do it in a mode that we that we're also
learning something about the future if
you're doing this just to satisfy
ourselves that's though as doctors just
to palliate ourselves as doctors that is
the that is the lowest of the low
goals certainly if it gives the
patient's hope you know I think there's
there's a reason but that's a
conversation you need to have with
someone and it's very honest
conversation oncologists often run away
from that conversation doctors run away
from that conversation but you need to
have it but my general plea is that we
if we do is this the only way that we
would do this is to learn something from
the process so that the in the next
iteration it moves a little bit more
towards something more powerfully
therapeutic and that has happened in the
history of cancer
thank you